=head1 NAME

pcsc-spy - A PC/SC spy command

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pcsc-spy [B<-n>|B<--nocolor>] [B<-d>|B<--diffable>] [B<-h>|B<--help>]
[B<-v>|B<--version>] [B<-t>|B<--thread>] [F<fifo_filename>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

pcsc-spy displays PC/SC calls of an application. It must be used with
the F<libpcscspy.so> library.

To be able to spy the PC/SC layer, the application flow must be
modified so that all PC/SC calls are redirected. Two options are
available:

=over

=item - the application is linked with F<libpcsclite.so.1>

=item - the application loads the F<libpcsclite.so.1> library using dlopen(3)

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d>, B<--diffable>

Remove the variable parts (like handler values) from the output so that
two execution can be more easily compared.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display a short help text.

=item B<-n>, B<--nocolor>

Disable the output colorization (if you want redirect the output in a
file for example).

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Print the version of the F<pcsc-spy> program plus a copyright, a list of
authors.

=item B<-t>, B<--thread>

Add a thread number before each line of log to identify the calls from
the same threads.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Applications linked with libpcsclite.so.1

We will use the standard C<LD_PRELOAD> loader option to load our spying
library.

Example:

 LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libpcscspy.so pcsc_scan

=head2 Application loading libpcsclite.so.1

This is the case for the PC/SC wrappers like pyscard (for Python) and
pcsc-perl (for Perl). The LD_PRELOAD mechanism can't be used. Instead
we replace the F<libpcsclite.so.1> library by the spying one.

You may use F<install_spy.sh> and F<uninstall_spy.sh> to install and
uninstall the spying library.

Using the spying library without F<pcsc-spy> is not a problem but has
side effects:

- a line "libpcsclite_nospy.so.1: cannot open shared object file:
No such file or directory" will be displayed

- some CPU time will be lost because of the PC/SC calls redirection

=head2 Starting the spy tool

 pcsc-spy

If a command argument is passed we use it instead of the default
F<~/pcsc-spy> FIFO file. It is then possible to record an execution log
and use pcsc-spy multiple times on the same log.

To create the log file just do:

 mkfifo ~/pcsc-spy
 cat ~/pcsc-spy > logfile

and run your PC/SC application.

=head1 FILES

F<~/pcsc-spy> FIFO file is used by F<libpcsclite.so.1> to send the raw
log lines

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pcscd(8)>

=head1 AUTHOR

This manual page was written by Ludovic Rousseau <rousseau@free.fr>
